Pope Francis participated in the Easter Vigil on Saturday (30) at St. Peter's Basilica in the Vatican, allaying concerns about his health after his last-minute cancellation of his participation in the Via Crucis on Good Friday. The 87-year-old pontiff arrived at the basilica in a wheelchair and celebrated a two-hour liturgy before thousands of pilgrims from around the world, ahead of Easter Sunday Mass and the traditional "Urbi et Orbi" blessing.

After the lighting ceremony in a darkened basilica, which is symbolic of Christ's passage from death to life, Francis read all prepared texts, including a homily over one page, and smiled and waved to the congregation as he left also in a wheelchair. His voice, however, sometimes sounded hoarse and without breath.

The pope cancelled his participation in the Via Crucis at the Colosseum on Friday evening due to concerns about his health, which has been weakened. The traditional Via Crucis of Good Friday at the Colosseum is one of the most important events in the Catholic Church's calendar, bringing together thousands of faithful from various countries, many carrying candles, in silence to attend the event.

"To preserve his health, Pope Francis will follow the Via Crucis from his residence at Santa Marta tomorrow and Easter Sunday Mass," the Vatican said. After the announcement, before the ceremony began, the chair reserved for the pope on a hill in front of the Roman monument was removed.

The Argentine pontiff also cancelled his participation in the Via Crucis in 2023, but last year's decision occurred after a three-day hospitalization to treat bronchitis. The Semana Santa is an intense celebration with a series of activities that end with Easter Sunday. The cancellation on Good Friday reignited concerns about the health of the leader of the Catholic Church and its 1.3 billion followers.

Francisco underwent abdominal surgery in June last year, and in December, he had to cancel his trip to Dubai for the COP28, the UN climate conference, due to respiratory problems. As a young man in Buenos Aires, Francisco had part of his lung removed.